# Prototype for create-webpack-app

<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<details open="open">
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li>
      <a href="#about-the-prototype">About The Prototype</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#what-works-in-the-prototype">What Works in the Prototype</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#installation">Installation</a></li>
        <li><a href="#usage">Usage</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><a href="#notes">Notes</a></li>
    <li><a href="#author">Author</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>

## About The Prototype

This is a prototype of my proposal for `create-webpack-app` project in GSoC 2024. Please read this doc to be able to understand how to run it. Do not hesitate to contact me over any doubts regarding this repository. All of my contact info is mentioned in the proposal.

### What Works in the Prototype

1. Template is hard-coded into the repository. In the final solution, as per my proposal, templates will be stored in NPM repository, or can be pointed to a custom location locally, with only the default template being shipped with `create-webpack-app`. As a consequence, the utility will search for a template in NPM or locally dependent upon the prefix input by the end-user.
2. The template supports the following options for demonstration purposes:

   1. `wds`: Adds `webpack-dev-server` dependency into the final project output.
   2. `simplifyHtml`: Adds `HTMLWebpackPlugin` as a dependency and injects it into the webpack config.

   My proposal includes the scope of creating several full-fledged templates (on par with current functionality in `webpack-cli`) as a starting point, including templates for React, Preact, TypeScript, ES6, and Angular. Clients around the world will be able to create unique templates based on their requirements by following the template spec described in the proposal and use it with the utility.

<!-- Files-->

## Files and Directories

- **es6-template**: Directory containing the sample ES6 template.
- **output**: Directory for the output. Run the command specified in this README to see the output project generated by this prototype of `create-webpack-app`.
- **src**: Source code of `create-webpack-app`.

**Note**: The training dataset is not included in the repo due to git constraints.

<!-- GETTING STARTED -->

## Getting Started

### Installation

1. Clone the repo
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/rb3198/create-webpack-app-proto
   ```
2. Run NPM installation command in the root directory.
   ```
   create-webpack-app-proto> npm i
   ```

### Usage

Run `npm start <output-project-directory> [options]` in the root directory. <br>
Example:

```
create-webpack-app-proto> npm start output/my-app -- --options wds simplifyHtml -pv 0.0.1
```

Creates a new ES6 webpack project in the `output` directory. The new project is versioned 0.0.1, its configuration uses uses `HtmlWebpackPlugin` to simplify HTML file creation, and `webpack-dev-server` is marked as a dev dependency to enable hot reload of the application.

## Notes

**The prototype has a lot of room for optimization and feature addition, which will be done if this project is selected for GSOC.**
For example, all the synchronous file reads and writes can be modified to be performed asynchronously. <br>
Code structure can be optimized, and more features and templates can be added as proposed in the proposal.

<!-- Authors -->

## Author

Ronit Bhatia [GitHub: Ronit Bhatia](https://www.github.com/rb3198) <br>
Aspiring to take up the `create-webpack-app` project in GSoC 2024.
